Update the package list:

sudo apt update 

Install the OpenJDK 17 package:

sudo apt install openjdk-17-jdk 

Verify the installation by checking the Java version:

java -version 

This command should display the installed Java version.

To remove Java 17 and its associated commands, you can use the following steps:
Uninstall the OpenJDK 17 package:

sudo apt remove openjdk-17-jdk 

Remove any residual configuration files:

sudo apt purge openjdk-17-jdk 

Additionally, if you no longer need the Java package repository, you can remove it as well:

sudo apt-add-repository --remove ppa:openjdk-r/ppa 

That's it! Java 17 should now be uninstalled from your Ubuntu 22.04 system, and you won't have access to the Java 17 commands anymore.
  
install java 11 and remove on ubuntu 22.04

To install Java 11 on Ubuntu 22.04, you can follow these steps:
Update the package list:

sudo apt update 

Install the OpenJDK 11 package:

sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk 

sudo apt install default-jre

Verify the installation by checking the Java version:

java -version 

This command should display the installed Java version.
To remove Java 11 and its associated commands, you can use the following steps:

Uninstall the OpenJDK 11 package:

sudo apt remove openjdk-11-jdk 

Remove any residual configuration files:

sudo apt purge openjdk-11-jdk 

Additionally, if you no longer need the Java package repository, you can remove it as well:

sudo apt-add-repository --remove ppa:openjdk-r/ppa 

That's it! Java 11 should now be uninstalled from your Ubuntu 22.04 system, and you won't have access to the Java 11 commands anymore.



Install using the yum Package Manager on Amazon Linux & centos & Amazon 2023
Amazon Corretto 17 has a 'headless' variant available. This variant omits runtime dependencies that are typically associated with GUI applications such as X11 and ALSA and is worth considering for server-oriented workloads. The 'headful' variant adds support for X11 and ALSA. There is also a 'devel' package which contains the JDK development tools, as well as a 'jmods' package that contains the Amazon Corretto 17 JMods used to create custom runtime images.
Option 1: Install the headless Amazon Corretto 17:
sudo yum install java-17-amazon-corretto-headless
Option 2: Install the headful Amazon Corretto 17:
sudo yum install java-17-amazon-corretto
Option 3: Install the JDK for Amazon Corretto 17:
sudo yum install java-17-amazon-corretto-devel
Option 4: Install the JMods for Amazon Corretto 17:
sudo yum install java-17-amazon-corretto-jmods
The installation location is /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-amazon-corretto.<cpu_arch>.
Verify Your Installation
To verify the installation, run java -version in a console. If the version string doesn't mention Corretto, run the following command to change the default java provider.
sudo alternatives --config java
Uninstall Amazon Corretto 17
You can uninstall Amazon Corretto 17 with the following commands.
Uninstall headless:
sudo yum remove java-17-amazon-corretto-headless
Uninstall headful:
sudo yum remove java-17-amazon-corretto
Uninstall devel:
sudo yum remove java-17-amazon-corretto-devel
Uninstall jmods:
sudo yum remove java-17-amazon-corretto-jmods

sudo yum install java-11-amazon-corretto (Amazon 2023)

sudo amazon-linux-extras install java-openjdk11 –y (Amazon linu x2)
